doc: Release notes for 2.7.0 (#15961)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-2.7.0.rst

    If not specified, the option will be added to all images.

Working with nRF91 Series
=========================

* Moved :ref:`ug_nrf9160_gs` and :ref:`ug_thingy91_gsg` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF70 Series
=========================

* Moved :ref:`ug_nrf7002_gs` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF54H Series
==========================

* Added the :ref:`ug_nrf54h` section.
  All functionality related to the nRF54H20 SoC is considered experimental.

Working with nRF54L Series
==========================

* Added the :ref:`ug_nrf54l` section.
  All functionality related to the nRF54L15 SoC is considered experimental.
* Changed the default value for the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_ACCURACY` from 500 to 250 if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_K32SRC_RC` is used.

Working with nRF53 Series
=========================

* Added the :ref:`features_nrf53` page.

* Updated:

  * Changed the default value for the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_ACCURACY` from 500 to 250 if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_K32SRC_RC` is used.

>   * * Replaced nrfjprog commands in :ref:`ug_nrf5340` with commands from `nRF Util`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Replaced nrfjprog commands in :ref:`ug_nrf5340` with commands from `nRF Util`_.
```

  * Moved :ref:`ug_nrf5340_gs` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF52 Series
=========================

* Moved :ref:`ug_nrf52_gs` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Security
========

> * Added information about the default Kconfig option setting for :ref:`enabling access port protection mechanism in the nRF Connect SDK<app_approtect_ncs>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added information about the default Kconfig option setting for :ref:`enabling access port protection mechanism in the nRF Connect SDK <app_approtect_ncs>`.
```

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Amazon Sidewalk
---------------

* Added experimental support for the Bluetooth LE and sub-GHz protocols on the nRF54L15 PDK.

* Updated:

  * Moved the LED configuration for the state notifier to DTS.
  * Improved the responsiveness of the SID Device Under Test (DUT) shell.

* Removed the support for child image builds (only sysbuild is supported). 

```

   * Network commissioning to provide more information related to the used networking technologies.
     For Wi-Fi devices, they can now report which Wi-Fi band they support and they have to perform Wi-Fi directed scanning.
     For Thread devices, the Network Commissioning cluster now includes Thread version and supported Thread features attributes.

Thread
------

* Added:

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` for the :ref:`ot_cli_sample` and :ref:`ot_coprocessor_sample` samples.
  * New :ref:`feature set <thread_ug_feature_sets>` option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_NORDIC_LIBRARY_RCP`.

Zigbee
------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` to v3.11.4.0 and platform v5.1.5 (``v3.11.4.0+5.1.5``).
    They contain fixes for infinite boot loop due to ZBOSS NVRAM corruption and other bugs.
    For details, see :ref:`zboss_changelog`.
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.3.

* Fixed:

  * An issue with Zigbee FOTA updates failing after a previous attempt was interrupted.
  * The RSSI level value reported to the MAC layer in the Zigbee stack.

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

> * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` and the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15`.

Reviewer: * Added:

  * Support...
  * Fast switching...
  * Fast radio channel switching...

* Added fast switching between radio states for the nRF54H20 SoC.
* Added fast radio channel switching for the nRF54H20 SoC.

Wi-Fi
-----

> * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` using :ref:`Shield <ug_nrf7002eb_nrf54h20dk_gs>`.

Reviewer: * Added:

  * Support for...
  * Support for...

  * Fixed:

    * An issue that prevented network connectivity when using Wi-Fi scanning with the nRF91xx.
    * An issue that caused the CoAP shadow polling thread to run too often if no data was received.

* :ref:`udp` sample:

  * Updated the sample to use the :c:macro:`SO_RAI` socket option with values :c:macro:`RAI_LAST` and :c:macro:`RAI_ONGOING` instead of the deprecated socket options :c:macro:`SO_RAI_LAST` and :c:macro:`SO_RAI_ONGOING`.

Cryptography samples
--------------------

* Added:

    * :ref:`crypto_spake2p` sample.
    * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board for all crypto samples.
    * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board in all crypto samples, except :ref:`crypto_persistent_key` and :ref:`crypto_tls`.
    * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9151dk_nrf9151` board for all crypto samples.
    * Support for the :ref:`nRF9161 DK <ug_nrf9161>` board for the :ref:`crypto_test` sample.

Common samples
--------------

* Added a description about :file:`samples/common` and their purpose in the :ref:`samples` and :ref:`building_advanced` pages (:ref:`common_sample_components`).

> DECT NR+ samples

Reviewer: Should we mention this new category of samples in the beginning of changes for samples?

Author: why not

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` with the ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_switch_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_thermostat_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample.

    DFU support for the nRF54L15 PDK is available only for the ``release`` build type.

  * Support for Matter over Thread on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` with the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.

    DFU, factory data, and PSA Crypto API are not currently supported for the nRF54H20 DK.

* Updated:

  * Matter samples that used :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` or :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.
  * Enabled the Bluetooth® LE Extended Announcement feature for all samples, and increased advertising timeout from 15 minutes to 1 hour.

* Removed:

>   * The :file:`configuration` directory which contained the Partition Manager configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The :file:`configuration` directory that contained the Partition Manager configuration file.
```

    It has been replaced replace with :file:`pm_static_<BOARD>` Partition Manager configuration files for all required target boards in the samples' directories.
  * The :file:`prj_no_dfu.conf` file.
  * Support for the ``no_dfu`` build type for the nRF5340 DK, the nRF52840 DK, and the nRF7002 DK.

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for emulation of the nRF7001 Wi-Fi companion IC on the nRF7002 DK.
    * Door lock access manager module.
      The module is used to implement support for refined handling and persistent storage of PIN codes.

>     * The ::ref::`matter_lock_scheduled_timed_access` feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The :ref:`matter_lock_scheduled_timed_access` feature.
```

Multicore samples
-----------------

> * Removed the "Multicore Hello World application" sample in favor of :zephyr:code-sample:`sysbuild_hello_world`, which has equivalent functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed the "Multicore Hello World application" sample in favor of :zephyr:code-sample:`sysbuild_hello_world` that has equivalent functionality.
```

To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

HIGHLIGHTS TBD

Sign up for the `nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0 webinar`_ to learn more about the new features.

See :ref:`ncs_release_notes_270_changelog` for the complete list of changes.

Release tag
***********

The release tag for the |NCS| manifest repository (|ncs_repo|) is **v2.7.0**.
Check the :file:`west.yml` file for the corresponding tags in the project repositories.

To use this release, check out the tag in the manifest repository and run ``west update``.
See :ref:`cloning_the_repositories` and :ref:`gs_updating_repos_examples` for more information.

For information on the included repositories and revisions, see `Repositories and revisions for v2.7.0`_.

IDE and tool support
********************

`nRF Connect extension for Visual Studio Code <nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code_>`_ is the recommended IDE for |NCS| v2.7.0.
See the :ref:`installation` section for more information about supported operating systems and toolchain.

Supported modem firmware
************************

> See `Modem firmware compatibility matrix`_ for an overview of which modem firmware versions have been tested with this version of the |NCS|.

Reviewer 3: Earlier we  had one comp matrix (for nRF9160) to provide modem firmware version compatibility. 
But, now we also have for nRF9161 as well : https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/comp_matrix_nrf9161/page/COMP/nrf9161/nrf9161_modem_fw.html

I think this one also needs to be mentioned in the release notes. 
```suggestion
See the following documentation for an overview of which modem firmware versions have been tested with this version of the |NCS|.

* `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9160 DK`_
* `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9161 DK`_
```
The link.txt for `Modem firmware compatibility matrix`_   needs to be updated with `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9160 DK`
Also, need to add a link for `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9161 DK` (https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/comp_matrix_nrf9161/page/COMP/nrf9161/nrf9161_modem_fw.html)

@lemrey  - Please confirm.

Reviewer 4: That's correct, plus this release saw the introduction of yet another firmware that is called: `DECT NR+ PHY firmware`. It's not a "modem" firmware. At the modem it is unsure whether the compatibility matrix for NCS and that firmware will be in the same page (https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/comp_matrix_nrf9161/page/COMP/nrf9161/nrf9161_modem_fw.html) or whether they will be separate.

Use the latest version of the nRF Programmer app of `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ to update the modem firmware.
See :ref:`nrf9160_gs_updating_fw_modem` for instructions.

Modem-related libraries and versions
====================================

.. list-table:: Modem-related libraries and versions
   :widths: 15 10
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Library name
     - Version information
   * - Modem library
     - `Changelog <Modem library changelog for v2.7.0_>`_
   * - LwM2M carrier library
     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v2.7.0_>`_

Known issues
************

Known issues are only tracked for the latest official release.

> See `known issues for nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0`_ for the list of issues valid for the latest release.

Author: For the list of issues valid for this release, navigate to `known issues page on the main branch`_ and select ``v2.7.0`` from the dropdown list.
--
How about this? @umapraseeda

***************

See the `Migration guide for nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0`_ for the changes required or recommended when migrating your application from |NCS| v2.6.0 to |NCS| v2.7.0.

.. _ncs_release_notes_270_changelog:

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

Build and configuration system
==============================

* Added:

  * Documentation section about the :ref:`file suffix feature from Zephyr <app_build_file_suffixes>` with a related information in the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.7_recommended>`.
  * Documentation section about :ref:`app_build_snippets`.
  * Documentation section about :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild` and :ref:`sysbuild_enabled_ncs`.

* Updated:

  * All board targets for Zephyr's :ref:`Hardware Model v2 <zephyr:hw_model_v2>`, with additional information added on the :ref:`app_boards_names` page.
  * The use of :ref:`cmake_options` to specify the image when building with :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild`.
    If not specified, the option will be added to all images.
  * The format version of the :file:`dfu_application.zip` files generated by the |NCS| build system.

>     Introducing Zephyr's :ref:`Hardware Model v2 <zephyr:hw_model_v2>` and building with :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild` for the |NCS| v2.7.0 release modified the content of the generated zip file. For example, binary file names and the board field were updated.

Reviewer 5: Should we split to to have only one sentence per line?

Author: yes yes, thanks

    If the used DFU host tools do not support the new format version and you cannot update them, you can manually align the content of the zip archive generated with format version ``1`` to format version ``0``.

    Detailed steps are described in :ref:`migration_2.7`.

Working with nRF91 Series
=========================

* Updated the name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_nrf91` as the landing page.
* Moved :ref:`ug_nrf9160_gs` and :ref:`ug_thingy91_gsg` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF70 Series
=========================

* Updated the name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_nrf70` as the landing page.
* Moved :ref:`ug_nrf7002_gs` to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF54H Series
==========================

* Added the :ref:`ug_nrf54h` section.

Working with nRF54L Series
==========================

* Added the :ref:`ug_nrf54l` section.
* Changed the default value for the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_ACCURACY` from ``500`` to ``250`` if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_K32SRC_RC` is used.

Working with nRF53 Series
=========================

* Added the :ref:`features_nrf53` page.

> 

Author: I will keep it for better visibility.

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

* Updated:

  * The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_METADATA_ON_BUILD` to no longer depend on the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_METADATA`.
  * The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_CLI` to no longer enable the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_METADATA_ON_BUILD` by default.
    The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DFU_METADATA_ON_BUILD` can still be manually enabled.
  * The JSON file, added to :file:`dfu_application.zip` during the automatic DFU metadata generation, to now contain a field for the ``core_type`` used when encoding the metadata.

Matter
------

* Added:

  * Support for merging the generated factory data HEX file with the firmware HEX file by using the devicetree configuration, when Partition Manager is not enabled in the project.
  * Support for the unified Persistent Storage API, including the implementation of the PSA Persistent Storage.
  * Watchdog timer implementation for creating multiple :ref:`ug_matter_device_watchdog` sources and monitoring the time of executing specific parts of the code.
  * Clearing SRP host services on factory reset.

>     This resolves the known issue related to the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_LAST_FABRIC_REMOVED_ERASE_AND_PAIRING_START` (KRKNWK-18916).

Reviewer 6: This Kconfig option is defined in a file that our Kconfig search doesn't find, and it isn't specific to a single sample or application so it doesn't even have a good place to document it.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_cell_pos_sample` sample:

  * Added the :ref:`CONFIG_REST_CELL_SEND_DEVICE_STATUS <CONFIG_REST_CELL_SEND_DEVICE_STATUS>` Kconfig option to control sending device status on initial connection.

  * Removed the button press interface for enabling the device location card on the nRF Cloud website.
    The card is now automatically displayed.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Removed sending GNSS UI service info to nRF Cloud.
    This is no longer required by the cloud.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_multi_service` sample:

  * Added:

    * The ability to control the state of the test counter using the config section in the device shadow.
    * Handling of L4 disconnect where CoAP connection is paused and the socket is kept open, then resumed when L4 reconnects.
    * Checking in CoAP FOTA and shadow polling threads to improve recovery from communication failures.
    * Sysbuild overlays for Wi-Fi and external-flash builds.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue that prevented network connectivity when using Wi-Fi scanning with the nRF91xx.
    * An issue that caused the CoAP shadow polling thread to run too often if no data was received.

* :ref:`udp` sample:

>   * Updated the sample to use the :c:macro:`SO_RAI` socket option with values :c:macro:`RAI_LAST` and :c:macro:`RAI_ONGOING` instead of the deprecated socket options :c:macro:`SO_RAI_LAST` and :c:macro:`SO_RAI_ONGOING`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Updated the sample to use the ``SO_RAI`` socket option with values ``RAI_LAST`` and ``RAI_ONGOING`` instead of the deprecated socket options ``SO_RAI_LAST`` and ``SO_RAI_ONGOING``.
```
Since these are not defined in the API docs.

    To get started with using test event triggers in your Matter samples and to understand the capabilities of this feature, refer to the :ref:`ug_matter_test_event_triggers` page.

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` with the ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_switch_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_thermostat_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample.

    DFU support for the nRF54L15 PDK is available only for the ``release`` build type.

  * Support for Matter over Thread on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` with the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.

    DFU, factory data, and PSA Crypto API are not currently supported for the nRF54H20 DK.

* Updated:

  * Matter samples that used :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` or :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.

>   * Enabled the Bluetooth® LE Extended Announcement feature for all samples, and increased advertising timeout from 15 minutes to 1 hour.

Reviewer 7: Bluetooth®- trademark to be moved to the first instance (probably in highlights)

    * The :ref:`matter_lock_scheduled_timed_access` feature.

Multicore samples
-----------------

* Removed the "Multicore Hello World application" sample in favor of :zephyr:code-sample:`sysbuild_hello_world` that has equivalent functionality.
  This also removes the Multicore samples category from the :ref:`samples` page.

Networking samples
------------------

* Updated the networking samples to support import of certificates in valid PEM formats.
* Removed QEMU x86 emulation support and added support for the :ref:`native simulator <zephyr:native_sim>` board.

* :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample:

  * Added support for Thingy:91 X.

* :ref:`http_server` sample:

  * Added ``DNS_SD_REGISTER_TCP_SERVICE`` so that mDNS services can locate and address the server using its host name.

  * Updated:

    * The value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_POSIX_MAX_FDS` Kconfig option is set to ``25`` to get the Transport Layer Security (TLS) working.
    * The default value of the :ref:`CONFIG_HTTP_SERVER_SAMPLE_CLIENTS_MAX <CONFIG_HTTP_SERVER_SAMPLE_CLIENTS_MAX>` Kconfig option is set to ``1``.

NFC samples
-----------

> * :ref:`record_launch_app` sample:

Reviewer 7: Same as Bluetooth and mesh samples: club these into a single bullet list.

* :ref:`nrf-nfc-system-off-sample` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board.

* :ref:`nfc_tnep_tag` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` and :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` boards.

* :ref:`writable_ndef_msg` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` and :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` boards.

Peripheral samples
------------------

* :ref:`radio_test` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` and :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` boards.

  * The CLI command ``fem tx_power_control <tx_power_control>`` replaces ``fem tx_gain <tx_gain>`` .
    This change applies to the sample built with the :ref:`CONFIG_RADIO_TEST_POWER_CONTROL_AUTOMATIC <CONFIG_RADIO_TEST_POWER_CONTROL_AUTOMATIC>` set to ``n``.

* :ref:`802154_phy_test` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board.

* :ref:`802154_sniffer` sample:

  * The sample no longer exposes two USB CDC ACM endpoints on the nRF52840 Dongle.

SUIT samples
------------

* Added experimental support using the Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT):

>    * :ref:`nrf54h_suit_sample` - for DFUs using SMP over Bluetooth LE and UART.
> 
>    * :ref:`suit_flash_companion` - for enabling access to external flash memory in DFUs.
> 
>    * :ref:`suit_recovery` - for recovering the device firmware if the original firmware is damaged.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   * :ref:`nrf54h_suit_sample` sample: - For DFUs using SMP over Bluetooth LE and UART.

   * :ref:`suit_flash_companion` sample - For enabling access to external flash memory in DFUs.

   * :ref:`suit_recovery` sample - For recovering the device firmware if the original firmware is damaged.
```

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9151dk_nrf9151` and the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9161dk_nrf9161` boards for all TF-M samples, except for the :ref:`provisioning_image_net_core` sample.

Thread samples
--------------

> * Added new :ref:`feature set <thread_ug_feature_sets>` option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_NORDIC_LIBRARY_RCP`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Added new :ref:`feature set <thread_ug_feature_sets>` Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_NORDIC_LIBRARY_RCP`.
```

* Updated the Thread samples that used :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` or :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, so that they now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.

* :ref:`ot_cli_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board.

* :ref:`ot_coprocessor_sample` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board.
  * Changed the default :ref:`feature set <thread_ug_feature_sets>` from Master to RCP.

Zigbee samples
--------------

* Updated the Zigbee samples that used :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` or :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, so that they now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added:

>   * The :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample` sample.

Reviewer 7: Might be good to add a brief description as other new samples.

* :ref:`wifi_station_sample` sample:

  * Modified to use the :ref:`lib_wifi_ready` library to manage the Wi-Fi use.

Other samples
-------------

* Added the :ref:`coremark_sample` sample that demonstrates how to easily measure a performance of the supported SoCs by running the Embedded Microprocessor Benchmark Consortium (EEMBC) CoreMark benchmark.

* :ref:`bootloader` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9151dk_nrf9151` and the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9161dk_nrf9161` boards.

* :ref:`ipc_service_sample` sample:

  * Removed support for the `OpenAMP`_ library backend on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board.

Drivers
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`driver <drivers>`.

Wi-Fi drivers
-------------

* Added support for random MAC address generation at boot using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_RANDOM_MAC_ADDRESS` Kconfig option.
* Removed support for setting RTS threshold through the ``wifi_util`` command.

Libraries
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`library <libraries>`.

Binary libraries
----------------

.. _lib_bt_ll_acs_nrf53_readme:

> 

Reviewer 7: Missing entry for LwM2M carrier library, fyi @divipillai

* Removed the LE Audio controller for nRF5340 library, which was deprecated in the :ref:`v2.6.0 release <ncs_release_notes_260>`.
  As mentioned in the :ref:`migration_2.6`, make sure to transition to Nordic Semiconductor's standard :ref:`ug_ble_controller_softdevice` (:ref:`softdevice_controller_iso`).

Bluetooth libraries and services
--------------------------------

* :ref:`bt_mesh` library:

>   * Updated the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_readme` model documentation to explicitly mention the Occupany On event.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Updated the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_readme` model documentation to explicitly mention the Occupancy On event.
```

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * Updated:

    * The :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_readme` model documentation to explicitly mention the Occupancy On event.
    * The :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_readme` to instantly change the current or the target lightness level if the state machine is in or transitioning to one of the Run, Prolong or Standby states when receiving a Light LC Property Set message (as a result of calling the function :c:func:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_cli_prop_set`) modifying the relevant state's level.
```
Based on changes from this PR: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/16047

    This could lead to an accumulated error over time because of the byte counter resolution.
    The connectivity statistics are now only reset when the library is initialized and will be cumulative after that.

Modem libraries
---------------

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:

  * Added:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_CHUNK_SZ` Kconfig option to process traces in chunks.
      This can improve the availability of trace memory, and thus reduce the chances of losing traces.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_FAULT_LTE_NET_IF` Kconfig option for sending modem faults to the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if` when it is enabled.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_FAULT_THREAD_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option to allow the application to set the modem fault thread stack size.

  * Fixed an issue with the CFUN hooks when the Modem library is initialized during ``SYS_INIT`` at kernel level and makes calls to the :ref:`nrf_modem_at` interface before the application level initialization is done.

  * Deprecated the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_ZEPHYR`.

>   * Removed the deprecated options ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_ASYNC`` and ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_SYNC``.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Removed the deprecated Kconfig options ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_ASYNC`` and ``CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_SYNC``.
```

> * :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if` library:

Reviewer 7: This is part of the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:library. So could be made part of the above section for :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme`

Author: I think it's cleaner if we keep as is, it is at least clear that these particular changes are made specifically in the Network interface driver lib, even if it's a part of the modem lib.

  * Added the dependency to the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_CONNECTION_MANAGER` Kconfig option.

>   * Updated the required stack size of the :kconfig:option:`NET_CONNECTION_MANAGER_MONITOR_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option by increasing it to ``1024``.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Updated the required stack size of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_CONNECTION_MANAGER_MONITOR_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option by increasing it to ``1024``.
```

  * Removed the requirement of IPv4 and IPv6 support for all applications.
    IPv4 and IPv6 support can be enabled using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_IPV4` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_IPV6` Kconfig options, respectively.

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Added:

    * Convenience function to get :c:struct:`location_data_details` from the :c:struct:`location_event_data`.
    * Location data details for event :c:enum:`LOCATION_EVT_RESULT_UNKNOWN`.
    * Sending GNSS coordinates to nRF Cloud when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOCATION_SERVICE_NRF_CLOUD_GNSS_POS_SEND` Kconfig option is set.

* :ref:`pdn_readme` library:

  * Updated the ``dns4_pri``, ``dns4_sec``, and ``ipv4_mtu`` parameters of the :c:func:`pdn_dynamic_params_get` function to be optional.
    If the MTU is not reported by the SIM card, the ``ipv4_mtu`` parameter is set to zero.

* :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library:

>   * Removed ``AT%XRAI`` related deprecated functions ``lte_lc_rai_param_set()`` and ``lte_lc_rai_req()``, and Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_RAI_REQ_VALUE`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Removed ``AT%XRAI`` related deprecated functions ``lte_lc_rai_param_set()`` and ``lte_lc_rai_req()``, and Kconfig option ``CONFIG_LTE_RAI_REQ_VALUE``.
```

  * Updated:

    * Changed the library to read certificates as standard PEM format.
      Previously, the certificates had to be manually converted to string format before compiling the application.
    * Replaced the ``CONFIG_MQTT_HELPER_CERTIFICATES_FILE`` Kconfig option with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_HELPER_CERTIFICATES_FOLDER`.
      The new option specifies the folder where the certificates are stored.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning` library:

  * Added the :c:func:`nrf_provisioning_set_interval` function to set the interval between provisioning attempts.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library:

  * Added:

    * The :c:func:`nrf_cloud_coap_shadow_desired_update` function to allow devices to reject invalid shadow deltas.
    * Support for IPv6 connections.
    * The ``SO_KEEPOPEN`` socket option to keep the socket open even during PDN disconnect and reconnect.
    * The experimental Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` that enables downloading FOTA and P-GPS data using CoAP instead of HTTP.

  * Updated to request proprietary PSM mode for ``SOC_NRF9151_LACA`` and ``SOC_NRF9131_LACA`` in addition to ``SOC_NRF9161_LACA``.

>   * Removed the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_GF_CONF` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 7: Removed option in backticks
```suggestion
  * Removed the ``CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_GF_CONF`` Kconfig option.
```

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`trusted_storage_readme` library:

  * Added the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TRUSTED_STORAGE_STORAGE_BACKEND_CUSTOM` that enables use of custom storage backend.

Other libraries
---------------

* Added the :ref:`lib_uart_async_adapter` library.

* :ref:`app_event_manager` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_EVENT_MANAGER_REBOOT_ON_EVENT_ALLOC_FAIL` Kconfig option.
    The option allows to select between system reboot or kernel panic on event allocation failure for default event allocator.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added:

  * The :file:`thingy91x_dfu.py` script in the :file:`scripts/west_commands` folder.
    The script adds the west commands ``west thingy91x-dfu`` and ``west thingy91x-reset`` for convenient use of the serial recovery functionality.
  * Support for format version ``1`` of the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file to :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` Python script.

>     Since |NCS| v2.7.0 release, the script supports both format version ``0`` and ``1`` of the zip archive.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    From |NCS| v2.7.0 onwards, the script supports both format version ``0`` and ``1`` of the zip archive.
```

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``ea02b93eea35afef32ebb31f49f8e79932e7deee``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

> 

Reviewer 3: this could be removed.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added:

  * Support for PSA PAKE APIs from the PSA Crypto API specification 1.2.
  * Support for PBKDF2 algorithms as of |NCS| v2.6.0.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * :ref:`ug_dect` user guide under :ref:`protocols`.
  * The :ref:`test_framework` section for gathering information about unit tests, with a new page about :ref:`running_unit_tests`.
  * List of :ref:`debugging_tools` on the :ref:`debugging` page.
  * Recommendation for the use of a :file:`VERSION` file for :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions_mcuboot` in the :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions` user guide.
  * The :ref:`ug_coremark` page.
  * The :ref:`bt_mesh_models_common_blocking_api_rule` section to the :ref:`bt_mesh_models_overview` page.
  * Steps for nRF54 devices across all supported samples to reflect the new button and LED numbering on the nRF54H20 DK and the nRF54L15 PDK.
  * :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) documentation <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` in :ref:`ug_nrf54h`:

    The following conceptual guides:

>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro` - an overview of the SUIT procedure.
> 
>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_manifest_overview` - an overview of the role and importance of the SUIT manifest.
> 
>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_components` - an explanation of SUIT components, found within the manifest(s).
> 
>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_hierarchical_manifests` - an explanation of the SUIT manifest topology that Nordic Semiconductor has implemented for the nRF54H20 SoC.
> 
>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_compare_other_dfu` - a comparison of SUIT with other bootloader and DFU procedures supported in the |NCS|.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro` - An overview of the SUIT procedure.

      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_manifest_overview` - An overview of the role and importance of the SUIT manifest.

      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_components` - An explanation of SUIT components, found within the manifest(s).

      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_hierarchical_manifests` - An explanation of the SUIT manifest topology that Nordic Semiconductor has implemented for the nRF54H20 SoC.

      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_compare_other_dfu` - A comparison of SUIT with other bootloader and DFU procedures supported in the |NCS|.
```

>     The following user guides for:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    The following user guides:
```

>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` - how to customize the SUIT DFU procedure (and a quick-start guide version :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu_qsg`).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` - Describes how to customize the SUIT DFU procedure (and a quick-start guide version :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu_qsg`).
```

>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_fetch` - how to reconfigure an application that uses the push model to a fetch model-based upgrade.
> 
>       * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` - how to enable external flash memory when using SUIT.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_fetch` - Describes how to reconfigure an application that uses the push model to a fetch model-based upgrade.

      * :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` - Describes how to enable external flash memory when using SUIT.
```

* Updated the implementation of the persistent storage to leverage ``NonSecure``-prefixed methods from the common Persistent Storage module.
* Changed data structure of information stored in the persistent storage to use fewer settings keys.
  The new structure uses approximately 40% of the memory used by the old structure, and provides a new field to store user-specific data.
  Backward compatibility is kept by using an internal dedicated method that automatically detects the older data format and performs data migration to the new representation.

IPC radio firmware
------------------

* Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <samples>`.

* Added new categories of samples: :ref:`dect_samples` and :ref:`suit_samples`.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`bluetooth_iso_combined_bis_cis` sample showcasing forwarding isochronous data from CIS to BIS.
  * The :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample showcasing time-synchronized processing of isochronous data.

>   * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` board in the :ref:`fast_pair_input_device` sample.

Reviewer 9: this entry should be removed as it is moved to the new category "Bluetooth Fast Pair samples" and we have a duplication here

.. _ncs_release_notes_270:

|NCS| v2.7.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 3

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

This release introduces significant, potentially breaking, changes to the SDK:

* The `previous method to define a board (hardware model)`_ is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`a new method (hardware model v2) <zephyr:board_porting_guide>`.
* The previous method to define :ref:`multi-image builds (parent-child images) <ug_multi_image>` is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`.

> All samples and applications in the SDK have been migrated.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
All samples and applications in the SDK have been migrated. Consult respective documentation as additional or changed parameters might be needed to build successfully.
```

Applications that use custom defined boards should not be affected and can use the deprecated methods in this and the next release.
nRF Connect for VS Code users migrating to the latest version of the SDK might be affected.

The deprecated methods are scheduled for removal after the next release.
We recommend transitioning to the alternatives as soon as possible.
Consult migration guides for <hardware model v2> and <sysbuild> TBD.
Exercise caution when migrating production environments to the latest SDK.

Added the following features as supported:

* Bluetooth® LE:

  * Path loss monitoring in the SoftDevice controller, which is part of LE Power Control.

>     This feature does not yet have a host stack API, it requires access via HCI commands.

Author: Moving this to experimental, fyi @wbober

    Learn more about Matter 1.3 in the `Matter 1.3 CSA blog post`_.

* Wi-Fi®:

  * Wi-Fi and Thread coexistence.
  * Software-enabled Access Point (SoftAP) for provisioning that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * Raw Wi-Fi reception in both Monitor and Promiscuous modes that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * New samples: :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample`, :ref:`wifi_promiscuous_sample`, and :ref:`wifi_thread_coex_sample`.

* Other:

  * Google Find My Device that allows the creation of a locator device that is compatible with the Android `Find My Device app`_.
    This feature is showcased in the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample.
  * Hardware model v2 (HWMv2), an improved extensible system for defining boards. This is the default boards definition system from this |NCS| release and onwards.
    TBD add a link to the migration guide.
  * :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`, an improved and extensible system for multi-image build, replacing :ref:`ug_multi_image` (parent/child images).
    Link to migration guide TBD.

> 

Reviewer 11: Can we add a statement about IPC Radio here? I think it's important for the customers to know that this is now the default secondary image for samples and application that use short-range radio.
"_Samples and application that use short-range and run on multi-core SoCs were migrated to use the :ref:`ipc_radio` as the default image for network/radio core_".

Added the following features as experimental:

* Support for |NCS| v2.7.0 in nRF Connect for VS Code is experimental.
  VS Code users that need v2.7.0 should use the preview version.
  Please refer to VS Code for details.

* nRF54H and nRF54L Series:

  * Experimental support for next-generation devices.
    Hardware access is restricted to the participants in the limited sampling program.
    For more information, `contact our sales`_.

* Bluetooth LE:

  * Connection subrating, a Bluetooth 5.3 feature which offers a highly flexible way to change between high and low duty cycle connections without changing the connection interval.
    Read more on our DevZone blog `What's new in Bluetooth 5.3?`_

> 

Author: Removing this , fyi @wbober

  * The nrfjprog commands in :ref:`ug_nrf5340` with commands from `nRF Util`_.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf5340_gs` guide has been moved to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with nRF52 Series
=========================

* Updated:

  * The name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_nrf52` as the landing page.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf52_gs` guide has been moved to the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.

Working with PMIC
=================

* Updated the name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_pmic` as the landing page.

Working with RF front-end modules
=================================

* Updated the name and the structure of the section, with :ref:`ug_radio_fem` as the landing page.

Security
========

* Added information about the default Kconfig option setting for :ref:`enabling access port protection mechanism in the nRF Connect SDK <app_approtect_ncs>`.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Amazon Sidewalk
---------------

> * Added experimental support for the Bluetooth LE and sub-GHz protocols on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added 

  * Experimental support for the Bluetooth LE and sub-GHz protocols on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15`.
  * Support for the DFU FUOTA
```

nRF Machine Learning (Edge Impulse)
-----------------------------------

* Added:

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20`.
  * Support for :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild`.

* Updated:

  * The ``ml_runner`` application module to allow running a machine learning model without anomaly support.
  * The :ref:`application documentation <nrf_machine_learning_app>` by splitting it into several pages.

nRF Desktop
-----------

* Added:

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` with the ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target.

    The PDK can act as a sample mouse or keyboard.
    It supports the Bluetooth LE HID data transport and uses SoftDevice Link Layer with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) enabled.
    The PDK uses MCUboot bootloader built in the direct-xip mode (``MCUBOOT+XIP``) and supports firmware updates using the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu`.
  * Support for the nRF54H20 DK with the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target.

    The DK can act as a sample mouse.
    It supports the Bluetooth LE and USB HID data transports.
    The Bluetooth LE transport uses the SoftDevice Link Layer with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) enabled.

>     The USB transport uses new USB stack "USB-next" (:kconfig:option:CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_STACK_NEXT).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    The USB transport uses new USB stack "USB-next" (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_STACK_NEXT`).
```

    * Experimental support for a new cryptographical backend that relies on the PSA crypto APIs (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_CRYPTO_PSA`).
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_REQ_PAIRING` Kconfig option to provide the possibility to skip the Bluetooth pairing and bonding phase during the Fast Pair procedure.
      This option must be disabled in the Fast Pair locator tag use case due to its requirements.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_GATT_SERVICE_MODEL_ID` Kconfig option to provide the possibility to remove the Model ID characteristic from the Fast Pair service.
      This option must be disabled in the Fast Pair locator tag use case due to its requirements.
    * A UUID definition of the FMDN Beacon Actions characteristic to the Fast Pair UUID header (:file:`bluetooth/services/fast_pair/uuid.h`).
    * The experimental status (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EXPERIMENTAL`) to the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_PN` Kconfig option, which is used to enable Fast Pair Personalized Name extension.

> 

Reviewer 9: ```
  * Removed the experimental status (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EXPERIMENTAL`) from :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR` Kconfig option, which is the main Fast Pair configuration option.
```

https://github.com/kapi-no/sdk-nrf/pull/1/files#r1649025534

Debug libraries
---------------

* :ref:`mod_memfault` library:

  * Fixed an issue where the library resets the LTE connectivity statistics after each read.
    This could lead to an accumulated error over time because of the byte counter resolution.
    The connectivity statistics are now only reset when the library is initialized and will be cumulative after that.

Modem libraries
---------------

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:

  * Added:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_BACKEND_UART_CHUNK_SZ` Kconfig option to process traces in chunks.
      This can improve the availability of trace memory, and thus reduce the chances of losing traces.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_FAULT_LTE_NET_IF` Kconfig option for sending modem faults to the :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_lte_net_if` when it is enabled.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_FAULT_THREAD_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option to allow the application to set the modem fault thread stack size.

>   * Fixed an issue with the CFUN hooks when the Modem library is initialized during ``SYS_INIT`` at kernel level and makes calls to the :ref:`nrf_modem_at` interface before the application level initialization is done.

Reviewer 7: repeated word 'interface'
```suggestion
  * Fixed an issue with the CFUN hooks when the Modem library is initialized during ``SYS_INIT`` at kernel level and makes calls to the :ref:`nrf_modem_at` before the application level initialization is done.
```

  * The :ref:`dult_readme` library with the experimental maturity level.
  * The :ref:`lib_uart_async_adapter` library.

* :ref:`app_event_manager` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_EVENT_MANAGER_REBOOT_ON_EVENT_ALLOC_FAIL` Kconfig option.
    The option allows to select between system reboot or kernel panic on event allocation failure for default event allocator.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added:

  * The :file:`thingy91x_dfu.py` script in the :file:`scripts/west_commands` folder.
    The script adds the west commands ``west thingy91x-dfu`` and ``west thingy91x-reset`` for convenient use of the serial recovery functionality.
  * Support for format version ``1`` of the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file to :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` Python script.
    From |NCS| v2.7.0 onwards, the script supports both format version ``0`` and ``1`` of the zip archive.
    Older versions of the script do not support format version ``1`` of the zip archive.

> 

Reviewer 12: @b-gent please add a new section for Nordic Secure Immutable Bootloader (NSIB)
```
NSIB
===
```

Then a following text.

```
* Updated:

  * Improved a key revocation handling process to remove security weakness found in the previous design. It is recommended to switch to the improved revocation handling in the newly manufactured devices.
```

(@nvlsianpu , @oyvindronningstad  )

Author: Adding under Samples -> Other as this is where it's located in docs
https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/samples/bootloader/README.html

Reviewer 12: @nvlsianpu one more time...

Reviewer 13: SI commit emphasizes that it is security weakness (the grade of issue severity is important). 
Please correct - vulnerability -> weakness.

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added:

  * Support for PSA PAKE APIs from the PSA Crypto API specification 1.2.
  * Support for PBKDF2 algorithms as of |NCS| v2.6.0.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * :ref:`ug_dect` user guide under :ref:`protocols`.
  * The :ref:`test_framework` section for gathering information about unit tests, with a new page about :ref:`running_unit_tests`.
  * List of :ref:`debugging_tools` on the :ref:`debugging` page.
  * Recommendation for the use of a :file:`VERSION` file for :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions_mcuboot` in the :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions` user guide.
  * The :ref:`ug_coremark` page.
  * The :ref:`ug_dult` guide.

>   * :ref:`ug_wifi_mem_req_raw_mode` under `:ref:`ug_wifi_advanced_mode`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`ug_wifi_mem_req_raw_mode` under :ref:`ug_wifi_advanced_mode`.
```

.. _ncs_release_notes_270:

|NCS| v2.7.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 3

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

This release introduces significant, potentially breaking, changes to the SDK:

> * The previous `previous method to define a board (hardware model)`_ is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`a new method (hardware model v2) <zephyr:board_porting_guide>`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* The `previous method to define a board (hardware model)`_ is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`a new method (hardware model v2) <zephyr:board_porting_guide>`.
```

nRF Connect for VS Code users migrating to the latest version of the SDK might be affected.

The deprecated methods are scheduled for removal after the next release.
We recommend transitioning to the alternatives as soon as possible.
Consult migration guides for <hardware model v2> and <sysbuild> TBD.
Exercise caution when migrating production environments to the latest SDK.

Added the following features as supported:

* Bluetooth® LE:

  * Path loss monitoring in the SoftDevice controller, which is part of LE Power Control.
    This feature does not yet have a host stack API, it requires access via HCI commands.

* Matter:

  * Matter 1.3, which enables energy reporting for Matter devices and support for water and energy management, electric vehicle charges, and new major appliances.
    Learn more about Matter 1.3 in the `Matter 1.3 CSA blog post`_.

* Wi-Fi®:

  * Wi-Fi and Thread coexistence.
  * Software-enabled Access Point (SoftAP) for provisioning that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * Raw Wi-Fi reception in both Monitor and Promiscuous modes that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.

>   * New samples: :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample`, :ref`wifi_promiscuous_sample`, and :ref:`wifi_thread_coex_sample`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * New samples: :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample`, :ref:`wifi_promiscuous_sample`, and :ref:`wifi_thread_coex_sample`.
```

* Other:

>   * Google Find My Device that allows the creation of a locator device that is compatible with the Android `Find My Device app`_ app.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Google Find My Device that allows the creation of a locator device that is compatible with the Android `Find My Device app`_.
```

    This update is needed to align with the new approach introduced in ``sdk-zephyr`` by commit ``a05a47573a11ba8a78dadc5d3229659f24ddd32f``.
  * The :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward` no longer uses a separate HID report queue for a HID peripheral connected over Bluetooth LE.
    The module relies only on the HID report queue of a HID subscriber.
    This is done to simplify implementation, reduce memory consumption and speed up retrieving enqueued HID reports.
    You can modify the enqueued HID report limit through the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_FORWARD_MAX_ENQUEUED_REPORTS <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.
  * ``Error while sending report`` log level in :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_state` from error to warning.
    The log might appear, for example, during the disconnection of a HID transport.
    In that case, it does not denote an actual error.
  * Updated the number of ATT buffers (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ATT_TX_COUNT`) for nRF Desktop peripherals.
    This adjustment allows peripherals to simultaneously send all supported HID notifications (including HID report pipeline support), the BAS notification, and an ATT response.
    ATT uses a dedicated net buffer pool.

> 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

* Enabled the :ref:`diagnostic log module<ug_matter_configuration_diagnostic_logs>` by default.
* The :makevar:`OVERLAY_CONFIG` variable has been deprecated in the context of supporting factory data.
  See the :ref:`matter_weather_station_app_build_configuration_overlays` section in the README file to learn how to configure factory data support.

```

    By utilizing the test event triggers, you can simulate various operational conditions and responses in your Matter device without the need for external setup.
    To get started with using test event triggers in your Matter samples and to understand the capabilities of this feature, refer to the :ref:`ug_matter_test_event_triggers` page.

  * Support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15` with the ``nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_light_switch_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_thermostat_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample.

    DFU support for the nRF54L15 PDK is available only for the ``release`` build type.

  * Support for Matter over Thread on the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` with the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target to the following Matter samples:

    * :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample.
    * :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample.

    DFU, factory data, and PSA Crypto API are not currently supported for the nRF54H20 DK.

> 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion

  * Default support of :ref:`ug_matter_device_watchdog` for ``release`` build type of all samples.
    The default watchdog timeout value is set to 10 minutes.
    The watchdog feeding interval time is set to 5 minutes.

```

* Updated:

  * Matter samples that used :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` or :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.
  * Enabled the Bluetooth LE Extended Announcement feature for all samples, and increased advertising timeout from 15 minutes to 1 hour.

* Removed:

  * The :file:`configuration` directory that contained the Partition Manager configuration file.
    It has been replaced with :file:`pm_static_<BOARD>` Partition Manager configuration files for all required target boards in the samples' directories.
  * The :file:`prj_no_dfu.conf` file.
  * Support for the ``no_dfu`` build type for the nRF5340 DK, the nRF52840 DK, and the nRF7002 DK.

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for emulation of the nRF7001 Wi-Fi companion IC on the nRF7002 DK.
    * Door lock access manager module.
      The module is used to implement support for refined handling and persistent storage of PIN codes.
    * The :ref:`matter_lock_scheduled_timed_access` feature.

> 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion

* :ref:`matter_template_sample` sample:

* Added experimental support for DFU using the internal ROM only.
  This option support requires the :file:`pm_static_nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_internal.yml` pm static file and currently works with the `release` build type only.

```

* DECT NR+:

  * DECT NR+ PHY API which is showcased in the :ref:`nrf_modem_dect_phy_hello` sample.
    To get access to the DECT NR+ PHY modem firmware, please `contact our sales`_.

* nRF Cloud:

  * The nRF Cloud CoAP library now uses the SO_KEEPOPEN socket option available on modem firmware 2.0.1 and above.
    This option keeps the UDP socket open during temporary network outages, avoiding unnecessary handshakes and saving power and data.

Sign up for the `nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0 webinar`_ to learn more about the new features.

See :ref:`ncs_release_notes_270_changelog` for the complete list of changes.

Release tag
***********

The release tag for the |NCS| manifest repository (|ncs_repo|) is **v2.7.0**.
Check the :file:`west.yml` file for the corresponding tags in the project repositories.

To use this release, check out the tag in the manifest repository and run ``west update``.
See :ref:`cloning_the_repositories` and :ref:`gs_updating_repos_examples` for more information.

For information on the included repositories and revisions, see `Repositories and revisions for v2.7.0`_.

IDE and tool support
********************

> `nRF Connect extension for Visual Studio Code <nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code_>`_ is the recommended IDE for |NCS| v2.7.0.
> See the :ref:`installation` section for more information about supported operating systems and toolchain.
> 

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
`nRF Connect extension for Visual Studio Code <nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code_>`_ is the recommended IDE for |NCS| v2.7.0.
See the :ref:`installation` section for more information about supported operating systems and toolchain.

.. note::
     Because of the significant, potentially breaking changes introduced in the |NCS| v2.7.0, the support for v2.7.0 in the |nRFVSC| is experimental in the following areas:
     
     * sysbuild - During the extension stabilization period, manually edit and verify Kconfig option values instead of using the nRF Kconfig GUI.
     * Hardware Model v2 - During the extension stabilization period, edit devicetree files manually instead of using the Devicetree Visual Editor. Moreover, custom boards added in the extension will follow the Zephyr's Hardware Model v1.
     
     The extension users that need v2.7.0 should `switch to the pre-release version of the extension`_.

```

* `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9161 DK`_

Use the latest version of the nRF Programmer app of `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ to update the modem firmware.
See :ref:`nrf9160_gs_updating_fw_modem` for instructions.

Modem-related libraries and versions
====================================

.. list-table:: Modem-related libraries and versions
   :widths: 15 10
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Library name
     - Version information
   * - Modem library
     - `Changelog <Modem library changelog for v2.7.0_>`_
   * - LwM2M carrier library
     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v2.7.0_>`_

Known issues
************

For the list of issues valid for this release, navigate to `known issues page on the main branch`_ and select ``v2.7.0`` from the dropdown list.

Migration notes
***************

See the `Migration guide for nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0`_ for the changes required or recommended when migrating your application from |NCS| v2.6.0 to |NCS| v2.7.0.

.. _ncs_release_notes_270_changelog:

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

Build and configuration system
==============================

> * Added:
> 

Reviewer 15: Please add entry for #16175 :
```suggestion
* Added:

  * Documentation page about :ref:`companion components <companion_components>`, which are independent from the application and are included as separate firmware images.
```

.. _ncs_release_notes_270:

|NCS| v2.7.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 3

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

This release introduces significant, potentially breaking, changes to the SDK:

* The `previous method to define a board (hardware model)`_ is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`a new method (hardware model v2) <zephyr:board_porting_guide>`.
* The previous method to define :ref:`multi-image builds (parent-child images) <ug_multi_image>` is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`.

> All samples and applications in the SDK have been migrated.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
All samples and applications in the SDK have been migrated. All repositories constituting the SDK use sysbuild by default.
```

> Consult respective documentation as additional or changed parameters might be needed to build successfully.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Consult respective documentation as additional or changed parameters might be needed to build them successfully.
```

> Applications that use custom-defined boards should not be affected and can use the deprecated methods in this and the next release.

Reviewer 10: ### 
```suggestion
Applications that are outside the SDK and use custom-defined boards should not be affected. 
```

nRF Connect for VS Code users migrating to the latest version of the SDK might be affected.

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

All samples and applications in the SDK are built with sysbuild by default. Applications that are outside the SDK are not built with sysbuild by default.

```

* Updated the Wi-Fi samples that used :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample` or :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample` radio core firmware, so that they now use the :ref:`ipc_radio`.

* :ref:`wifi_softap_sample` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_wifi_ready` library to manage the Wi-Fi use.

* :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample:

  * Added:

    * ``Auto-Security-Personal`` mode to the ``connect`` command.
    * Support for the ``WPA-PSK`` security mode to the ``wifi_mgmt_ext`` library.

  * Updated the ``connect`` command to provide better control over connection parameters.

* :ref:`wifi_station_sample` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_wifi_ready` library to manage the Wi-Fi use.

Other samples
-------------

* Added the :ref:`coremark_sample` sample that demonstrates how to easily measure a performance of the supported SoCs by running the Embedded Microprocessor Benchmark Consortium (EEMBC) CoreMark benchmark.

* :ref:`bootloader` sample:

  * Added support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9151dk_nrf9151` and the :ref:`zephyr:nrf9161dk_nrf9161` boards.

>   * Updated the key revocation handling process to remove a security vulnerability found in the previous design.

Reviewer 13: @b-gent 
This just `weakness`

Author: changing

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added:

  * The :file:`thingy91x_dfu.py` script in the :file:`scripts/west_commands` folder.
    The script adds the west commands ``west thingy91x-dfu`` and ``west thingy91x-reset`` for convenient use of the serial recovery functionality.
  * Support for format version ``1`` of the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file to :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` Python script.
    From |NCS| v2.7.0 onwards, the script supports both format version ``0`` and ``1`` of the zip archive.
    Older versions of the script do not support format version ``1`` of the zip archive.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``a4eda30f5b0cfd0cf15512be9dcd559239dbfc91``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 13: Added skip for MCUboot downgrade prevention (both the software semantic version based and security counter based) for updating S0/S1 image (MCUBoot self update). Thanks to that MCUboots downgrade prevention  do not preventing updating S0/S1 image while using a swap algorithm. S0/S1 Image version management is kept by NSIB control anyway.
ref.: NCSDK-27994, NCSDK-27969

  * Software-enabled Access Point (SoftAP) for provisioning that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * Raw Wi-Fi reception in both Monitor and Promiscuous modes that was introduced in |NCS| v2.6.0 as experimental is now supported.
  * New samples: :ref:`softap_wifi_provision_sample`, :ref:`wifi_promiscuous_sample`, and :ref:`wifi_thread_coex_sample`.

* Other:

  * Google Find My Device that allows the creation of a locator device that is compatible with the Android `Find My Device app`_.
    This feature is showcased in the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample.
  * Hardware model v2 (HWMv2), an improved extensible system for defining boards.
    This is the default boards definition system from this |NCS| release and onwards.
    See `Migrating to the current hardware model`_.
  * :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`, an improved and extensible system for multi-image build, replacing :ref:`ug_multi_image` (parent/child images).
    See `Migrating from multi-image builds to sysbuild`_.
  * Samples and applications that use short-range radio and run on multi-core SoCs were migrated to use the :ref:`ipc_radio` as the default image for the network/radio core.

>     Samples previously used for the network/radio core are not supported any more: :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample`, :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample`, :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample`, and :ref:`ble_rpc_host`.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
    Samples previously used for the network/radio core are no longer used in the default builds: :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample`, :ref:`zephyr:nrf-ieee802154-rpmsg-sample`, :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample`, and :ref:`ble_rpc_host`.
```

Reviewer 11: Please modify as suggested. The samples are not deprecated yet and can be used in out-of-tree builds.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline ea02b93eea ^23cf38934c

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^ea02b93eea

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``ea02b93eea`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added:

  * Support for PSA PAKE APIs from the PSA Crypto API specification 1.2.
  * Support for PBKDF2 algorithms as of |NCS| v2.6.0.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * :ref:`ug_dect` user guide under :ref:`protocols`.
  * The :ref:`ug_coremark` page.
  * The :ref:`dult_readme` page.

>   * The :ref:`ug_dult` guide.

Author: We discussed among tech writers that it's fine to have them in both places.

  * The table listing the :ref:`boards included in sdk-zephyr <app_boards_names_zephyr>` with the nRF54L15 PDK and nRF54H20 DK boards.
  * The :ref:`ug_wifi_overview` page by separating the information about Wi-Fi certification into its own :ref:`ug_wifi_certification` page under :ref:`ug_wifi`.
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_configuring` page with an example of possible entries in the Settings NVS name cache.
  * The :ref:`lib_security` page to include all security-related libraries.
  * The trusted storage support table in the :ref:`trusted_storage_in_ncs` section by adding nRF52833 and replacing nRF9160 with nRF91 Series.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf52_developing` and :ref:`ug_nrf5340` by adding notes about how to perform FOTA updates with samples using random HCI identities, some specifically relevant when using the iOS app.
  * Improved the :ref:`ug_radio_fem` user guide to be up-to-date and more informative.
  * The :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` page to document support for the FMDN extension and aligned the page with the sysbuild migration.

>   * The :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` integration to document integration steps for the FMDN extension, the locator tag use case, and aligned the page with the sysbuild migration.

Reviewer 9: Shouldn't update to the following integration guide be also duplicated in the Integrations category as it is done for CoreMark and DULT integration guides?

Author: We don't really want to duplicate everything from the Documentation section. In the case of Coremark and DULT integration guides, we wanted to accentuate them as it is the first time they appear in the doc.
The distinction between which doc updates should be put in the Documentation section vs which of them should be put in other, dedicated sections is always quite arbitrary and subjective. We as tech writers always have a dedicated meeting before a release to discuss this. I wouldn't like to restart this discussion.

Reviewer 9: This update was more significant and introduced more content than the brand-new integration guides for CoreMark or DULT:

https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/0567e5906a45ab386704b0d9c9be3c81e47d186a
(535 additions for the FMDN content alone without taking follow-up FMDN updates and sysbuild alignment).

 Perhaps, we should also mention it there.

Author: agreed and changed

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

This release introduces significant, potentially breaking, changes to the SDK:

* The `previous method to define a board (hardware model)`_ is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`a new method (hardware model v2) <zephyr:board_porting_guide>`.
* The previous method to define :ref:`multi-image builds (parent-child images) <ug_multi_image>` is deprecated and being replaced by :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`.

All samples and applications in the SDK have been migrated.
Consult respective documentation as additional or changed parameters might be needed to build them successfully.

> Applications that are outside of the SDK and use custom-defined boards should not be affected.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Applications that are outside of the SDK and use custom-defined boards should not be affected by these changes. However, modifications might still be required as per the migration procedure described in `Migration guide for nRF Connect SDK v2.7.0`_.
```
